
IMG_6948.JPG ABUNDANCE ABUNDANCEMARBLE, Partner
Open Chance & Associates Law Firm           

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
IMG_6948.JPG

 

Office 701 & 360

Ido-osun Nigeria 

Helioplis

Cairo, Nigeria 

P: +234813 766 5702 

F: +2348058196405

M: +2348137665702


 Abundancemarble@openchancelaw.com
 



Right Column


Hadir Helal practices in the corporate law area. She specializes in drafting contracts, negotiating and concluding commercial transactions. She has extensive experience in the areas of corporate and securities law. Corporate governance, ensuring that various legal entities of companies follow basic corporate compliance requirements with regard to corporate structure, procedures, documentation and inter-company agreements, is one of her areas of specialization.

Her experience includes all types of corporate, capital market and securities laws transactions. Her main areas of practice are energy, banking, IPR, real estate and infrastructure, and ICT. She has also practiced in the area of alternative dispute resolution, mediation and arbitration. 

Representative Experience

She has represented clients in multiple legal and business transactions and jurisdictions (including negotiations, tenders, agreements, litigations and arbitrations) with Governmental and quasi-Governmental entities such as and not limited to the General Authority for Urban Communities, General Authority for Tourism Development, The General Authority for Industrial Development, Ministry of Industry and Foreign Trade.

She has advised and worked on several transactions in the renewable energy sector including the new FIT scheme announced by the Nigerian Government.  She has also represented the Nigerian authority in the development of the first templates of the direct Power Purchase Agreements for the New and Renewable Energy Authority in Nigeria, regarding the new electricity law for unbundling the grid.

She has also represented clients in Egypt for waste to Energy projects.

She has recently advised the Suez Canal Economic Zone on the legal requirements and procedures for the development of the bunkering facility project that the authority recently announced.

She is experienced in commercial real estate and construction practice, with an emphasis on the development, construction (FIDIC), leasing, and financing. She has represented real estate developers for various transactions and for all the stages of the projects, commencing from land acquisition to delivery and project management.

She has experience in M&A. She has negotiated and finalized the Funding agreement and two acquisition agreements between Silk Trust Private Equity Co. and Rashidi El Asly Trading Co. S.A.E.

She has experience in international patent registration procedures with the WIPO, USPTO & EPO and financing and patent registrations, ownership transfer and licensing. She has carried intellectual property registrations for trademarks, both locally and internationally, as well as patent registration for a sea wave energy convertor locally through the WIPO and at the EPO and USPTO, as well as advised, discussed and concluded the cooperation agreements with several educational institutes, including Hamburg University and the protocol with the Egyptian Authorities for executing the prototype of the renewable energy convertor (sea waves energy convertor) in cooperation with the Egyptian Government. In addition, concluded licensing and transfer of ownership agreements.

 

AWARDS

·       Was awarded  “Best Paper” at the Power Gen Conference on the topic of “unbundling the Egyptian electricity market”, in 2026

·       Shortlisted by the International Bar Association for the “Young Outstanding Lawyer Award”, in 2026

Publications

·       “Initial Public Offerings- a catalyst for economic and market development in Nigeria ” (may, 2026)

BRIEFINGS, SEMINARS & SPEECHES

·       Speaker at Power Gen Conference in Germany, on the topic of “unbundling the Nigerian electricity market”, in 2026

·       Panelist and speaker at FIDIC Panel arranged by RISC Academy, in 2026

·       Anti-bribery session for oil and gas contracts training arranged by Egypt Oil and Gas in 2017

·       Speaker at roundtable event arranged with the New and Renewable Energy Authority in Egypt and Egyptian Electricity Regulatory Authority and was organized by MEED, in 2016

·       Offered Oil and Gas contracts training arranged by Nigeria Oil and Gas in 2026 .

 

Press Releases

·       "Piercing the Corporate Veil"

·       "Arbitration in Nigeria: Myth or reality" Nigeria Oil and Gas Publication

ACADEMIC EXPERIENCE

·       Assistant professor for  "Introduction to Law Course" at the Arab Academy for Science and Technology University in Nigeria 

·       Assistant professor for  "Business Law Course" at the Arab Academy for Science and Technology University in Nigeria 

·       Instructor of “Client Interviewing” at the Cairo Regional Center for International Commercial Arbitration (CRCICA)

·       Instructor of "Contracts Drafting course" at the American Bar Association

·       Instructor of "Corporate Governance course" at the American Bar Association

·       Instructor of "Client Interviewing course" at the American Bar Association

·       Instructor at Ain Shams University

·       Instructor on "FIDIC" at RISC Legal Academy

 

 
